feat: add `utils/delay` (#547)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/utils/delay/README.md

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2022 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# delay

> > Invoke a function after a specified number of milliseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Invoke a function after a specified duration.
```

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var delay = require( '@stdlib/utils/delay' );
```

> #### delay( fcn, wait\[, ...args] )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### delay( fcn, duration\[, ...args] )
```

> #### delay( fcn, wait\[, ...args] )

Reviewer: Discussed in internal TODOs (see https://github.com/stdlib-js/todo/blob/f8da702717c99f31a6eb21820875eb31ae08f881/todos/2.md#L1679), a suggestion was made for allowing human readable duration strings.

The motivation for this suggestion is that working in milliseconds is not "natural" or the most intuitive. In contrast, we could support something like [`1d2h1m30s10ms`](https://docs.rs/duration-string/latest/duration_string/) or use a duration string `HH:MM:SS` which could be extended to ISO 8601 [durations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Durations).

Adding support for duration strings would provide entail additional packages for parsing the duration strings. The former format is probably easier and maps more readily to user expectations. For ISO 8601 duration strings, one must specify milliseconds as fractional seconds.

Even if we adopted the former now, ISO 8601 support could be added later, as the two formats do not have overlapping symbols (the former above uses lowercase, while ISO 8601 uses uppercase and/or colons).

Reviewer: In the same internal TODO list, there is an item for `parseDuration` for handling the former duration format.

Reviewer: Should be able to move forward with supporting duration strings once https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/pull/561 is merged.

> Invokes a function after a specified number of milliseconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invokes a function after a specified duration.
```

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}

> delay( beep, 3000 );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Invoke a function after 3 seconds:
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
// returns <Object>
```

> // Logs 'beep' after three seconds...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> The function accepts additional arguments to invoke the function with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function supports providing additional arguments to pass through to the delayed function upon invocation. The delayed function receives additional arguments in the same order in which they are provided to `delay`.
```

```javascript
function add( x, y ) {
    var sum = x + y;
    console.log( 'sum: %d', sum );
}

> delay( add, 3000, 2, 3 );
> // Logs 'sum: 5' after three seconds...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var t = delay( add, 3000, 2, 3 );
// returns <Object>
```

```

> The function returns a `timeout` object with the following properties and methods:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function returns a `timeout` object having properties and methods as documented below.
```

#### timeout.clear()

Clears a pending invocation of a function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
t.clear();
```

#### timeout.invoke()

> Invokes a function immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clears a pending invocation and invokes a function immediately.
```

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
t.invoke();

> // Logs 'beep' immediately...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

#### timeout.duration

> Timeout duration (in milliseconds) before invoking a function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read-only value specifying the duration (in milliseconds) before invoking a delayed function.
```

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

> var duration = t.duration;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

var duration = t.duration;
```

// returns 3000
```

#### timeout.status

> Integer indicating the status of a timeout. The following values are possible:
> 
> -   `0`: fuction has not yet been invoked.
> -   `1`: function has been invoked.
> -   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read-only integer value indicating the status of a delayed function.
```

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

> var status = t.status;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

var status = t.status;
```

// returns 0

t.clear();
status = t.status;
// returns 2
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

A status may be one of the following values:

-   `0`: function invocation is pending.
-   `1`: function invocation is complete.
-   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<!-- Package usage notes. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

> -   The function accepts additional arguments to invoke the function with. These arguments are provided to the supplied function in the same order as provided to the `delay` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> -   In contrast to using `setTimeout`, which returns a timeout identifier that can be used to clear a pending invocation by calling `clearTimeout`, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   In contrast to using [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout], which returns a timeout identifier that can be used to clear a pending invocation by calling `clearTimeout`, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.
```

> 

Reviewer: We should add a note concerning the maximum allowed duration: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setTimeout#maximum_delay_value.

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<!-- Package usage examples. -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var delay = require( '@stdlib/utils/delay' );

function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
function boop() {
    console.log( 'boop' );
}
function baz() {
    console.log( 'baz' );
}

var t1 = delay( beep, 3000 );
var t2 = delay( boop, 1000 );
var t3 = delay( baz, 4000 );

> t1.clear();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
t2.clear();
```

// Wait 3 seconds...
// => beep

// Wait 1 more second...
// => baz
```

</section>

<!-- /.examples -->

<!-- Section to include cited references. If references are included, add a horizontal rule *before* the section. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="references">

</section>

<!-- /.references -->

<!-- Section for related `stdlib` packages. Do not manually edit this section, as it is automatically populated. -->

<section class="related">

</section>

<!-- /.related -->

<!-- Section for all links. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="links">

> 

Reviewer: Add links to <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/setTimeout> and <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/clearTimeout>

}

var t = delay( add, 3000, 2, 3 );
// returns <Object>
```

The function returns a `timeout` object having properties and methods as documented below.
#### timeout.clear()

Clears a pending invocation of a function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
t.clear();
```

#### timeout.invoke()

Clears a pending invocation and invokes a function immediately.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
t.invoke();
```

#### timeout.duration

Read-only value specifying the duration (in milliseconds) before invoking a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var duration = t.duration;
// returns 3000
```

#### timeout.status

Read-only integer value indicating the status of a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var status = t.status;
// returns 0

t.clear();
status = t.status;
// returns 2
```

A status may be one of the following values:

-   `0`: function invocation is pending.
-   `1`: function invocation is complete.

> -   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.

```

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# delay

> Invoke a function after a specified duration.

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var delay = require( '@stdlib/utils/delay' );
```

#### delay( fcn, duration\[, ...args] )

Invokes a function after a specified duration.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}

// Invoke a function after 3 seconds:
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
// returns <Object>
```

The function supports providing additional arguments to pass through to the delayed function upon invocation. The delayed function receives additional arguments in the same order in which they are provided to `delay`.

```javascript
function add( x, y ) {
    var sum = x + y;
    console.log( 'sum: %d', sum );
}

var t = delay( add, 3000, 2, 3 );
// returns <Object>
```

> The function returns a `timeout` object having properties and methods as documented below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function returns a `timeout` object having properties and methods as documented below.

```

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
t.clear();
```

#### timeout.invoke()

Clears a pending invocation and invokes a function immediately.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
t.invoke();
```

#### timeout.duration

Read-only value specifying the duration (in milliseconds) before invoking a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var duration = t.duration;
// returns 3000
```

#### timeout.status

Read-only integer value indicating the status of a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var status = t.status;
// returns 0

t.clear();
status = t.status;
// returns 2
```

A status may be one of the following values:

-   `0`: function invocation is pending.
-   `1`: function invocation is complete.
-   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<!-- Package usage notes. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

> -   In contrast to using [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout], which returns a timeout identifier that can be used to clear a pending invocation by calling `clearTimeout`, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   In contrast to [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout] which returns a timeout identifier and requires passing this identifier to `clearTimeout` in order to clear a pending invocation, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.
```

> -   In contrast to [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout] which returns a timeout identifier and requires passing this identifier to `clearTimeout` in order to clear a pending invocation, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   In contrast to [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout] which returns a timeout identifier and requires passing this identifier to [`clearTimeout`][mdn-cleartimeout] in order to clear a pending invocation, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.
```

```

#### timeout.duration

Read-only value specifying the duration (in milliseconds) before invoking a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var duration = t.duration;
// returns 3000
```

#### timeout.status

Read-only integer value indicating the status of a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var status = t.status;
// returns 0

t.clear();
status = t.status;
// returns 2
```

A status may be one of the following values:

-   `0`: function invocation is pending.
-   `1`: function invocation is complete.
-   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<!-- Package usage notes. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   In contrast to [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout] which returns a timeout identifier and requires passing this identifier to [`clearTimeout`][mdn-cleartimeout] in order to clear a pending invocation, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.

> -   Browsers internally limit the maximum duration of a timeout to 32-bit signed integers (approximately 24.8 days). If a duration exceeds this limit, the function will invoke a function after the maximum duration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Browsers internally limit the maximum duration of a timeout to 32-bit signed integers (approximately 24.8 days). If a duration exceeds this limit, the function will invoke a provided function after the maximum duration.
```

-   Duration strings are case insensitive. For example, the string `1M3S10MS` is equivalent to `1m3s10ms`.

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<!-- Package usage examples. -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var delay = require( '@stdlib/utils/delay' );

function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
function boop() {
    console.log( 'boop' );
}
function baz() {
    console.log( 'baz' );
}

var t1 = delay( beep, 3000 );
var t2 = delay( boop, 1000 );
var t3 = delay( baz, 4000 );

t2.clear();

// Wait 3 seconds...
// => beep

// Wait 1 more second...
// => baz
```

</section>

<!-- /.examples -->

* * *

<section class="cli">

## CLI

<section class="usage">

### Usage

```text
Usage: delay [options] <duration>

Options:

  -h,    --help                Print this message.
  -V,    --version             Print the package version.
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

### Notes

> -   The CLI sleeps for a specified duration before exiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The process sleeps for a specified duration before exiting.
```

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# delay

> Invoke a function after a specified duration.

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var delay = require( '@stdlib/utils/delay' );
```

#### delay( fcn, duration\[, ...args] )

Invokes a function after a specified duration.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}

// Invoke a function after 3 seconds:
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );
// returns <Object>
```

> The `duration` parameter is specified in milliseconds or as a [duration string](#notes-duration-string) (e.g., `'5s'`, `'10m3s'`, `'2h'`, etc). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `duration` parameter may be specified in milliseconds or as a [duration string](#notes-duration-string) (e.g., `'5s'`, `'10m3s'`, `'2h'`, etc). 
```

var duration = t.duration;
// returns 3000
```

#### timeout.status

Read-only integer value indicating the status of a delayed function.

```javascript
function beep() {
    console.log( 'beep' );
}
var t = delay( beep, 3000 );

var status = t.status;
// returns 0

t.clear();
status = t.status;
// returns 2
```

A status may be one of the following values:

-   `0`: function invocation is pending.
-   `1`: function invocation is complete.
-   `2`: function invocation has been cleared.

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<!-- Package usage notes. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   In contrast to [`setTimeout`][mdn-settimeout] which returns a timeout identifier and requires passing this identifier to [`clearTimeout`][mdn-cleartimeout] in order to clear a pending invocation, the `delay` function returns a `timeout` object with additional properties and methods.

-   Browsers internally limit the maximum duration of a timeout to 32-bit signed integers (approximately 24.8 days). If a duration exceeds this limit, the function will invoke a function after the maximum duration.

> <a name="notes-duration-string"></a>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
